---
layout: post
title:  "Duality"
date:   2016-11-1
published: true
---

<!-- 
. LP duality
. Dual space
. inner/outer product
. transpose
!-->

Duality is this macro-concept that shows up every once in my life every once in a while and always leaves me simultaneously confused and awed. Its simple enough to make me think I understand, but its very elegance taunts me; it seems to hint that something deeper is going on. I'll go through some examples of duality and try to see what common operations or concepts arise. 

### Duality in Linear Programming

Say you operate a popular boba pop-up truck in a California college town. The demand is so high that you sell out every day, no matter what. You make two drinks: a classic milk tea and an oolong milk tea. The classic milk tea costs 2 units of tea and 8 units of milk to make, while the oolong milk tea costs 4 of tea and 6 units of milk. Currently there are only *T* units of tea and *M* units of milk total available for use. You sell the classic milk tea for $5 but the oolong milk tea for $8, since you claim to use Tie Guan Yin straight from the fields of Anxi, but really you just order Bigelow off of Amazon. You have figure out many of each drink to make the most money. Let *x<sub>1</sub>* be the number of classic milk teas and *x<sub>2</sub>* be the number of oolong milk teas. We can formulate our problem as a *linear program*:

$$
\begin{gather*}
\max 5x_1 + 8x_2 \\
\text{subject to: } \\
2x_1 + 4x_2 \leq T \\ 
8x_1 + 6x_2 \leq M \\
x_1, x_2 \geq 0 \\
\end{gather*}
$$